Following the events of the previous film
Casino Royale, James Bond is driving to Siena,
Italy, with the captured Mr. White in
the trunk of his Aston Martin DBS V12.
After evading pursuers, Bond delivers White to M,
the chief of MI6, who interrogates him regarding
the mysterious organisation, Quantum. When White
responds that their operatives are everywhere,
M's bodyguard Craig Mitchell suddenly
shoots one of the guards and attacks M.
Bond chases Mitchell and eventually kills him;
White escapes in the confusion. After returning
to London, and searching Mitchell's flat, Bond
and M discover Mitchell had a contact in Haiti,
Edmund Slate. Bond learns Slate is a hitman sent
to kill Camille Montes at the behest of her lover,
environmentalist entrepreneur Dominic Greene,
who is helping exiled Bolivian General Medrano,
who murdered Camille's family, to overthrow
the government and become the new president,
in exchange for a seemingly
barren piece of desert.
After rescuing Camille from Medrano, Bond
follows Greene to Austria. Meanwhile,
the head of the CIA's South American section,
Gregg Beam, along with agent Felix Leiter, strike
a noninterference deal with Greene for access to
putative stocks of Bolivian oil, which the CIA
believes to be the reason for Greene's interest
in the land. Bond infiltrates Quantum's meeting
at the opera, identifying members of Quantum's
executive board, and a gunfight ensues. A Special
Branch bodyguard working for Quantum member Guy
Haines, an advisor to the British Prime Minister,
is killed by one of Greene's men after Bond throws
him off a roof. Assuming Bond killed him, M has
his passports and credit cards revoked. Bond heads
to Talamone and convinces his old ally René Mathis
(whose innocence was confirmed after the events
of Casino Royale) to accompany him to Bolivia.
They are greeted by Fields, a consular employee
who demands Bond return to the UK immediately.
Bond seduces her, and they attend a fundraising
party Greene holds that night. At the party,
Bond again rescues Camille from Greene and they
leave. The Bolivian police pull Bond and Camille
over but discover Mathis unconscious in the car's
boot. One of the policemen shoots Mathis before
Bond kills both of them. Mathis dies in Bond's
arms, urging him to forgive Vesper and himself.
The following day, Bond and Camille survey
Quantum's intended land acquisition by air;
their plane is damaged by Bolivian fighter planes.
They trick the planes into destroying themselves,
skydive into a sinkhole and discover that,
instead of finding oil, Quantum has been
secretly damming Bolivia's supply of fresh
water to create a monopoly. Back in La Paz,
Bond meets M and learns Quantum killed Fields by
drowning her in crude oil. Bond meets Leiter, who
discloses Greene and Medrano will meet at a hotel,
La Perla de las Dunas, in the Atacama Desert to
finalize their agreement, and warns him to escape
as the CIA's Special Activities Division arrives.
Bond and Camille infiltrate the hotel, where
Greene blackmails Medrano into signing a
contract that will make Medrano the leader
of Bolivia in exchange for the land rights,
making Greene Bolivia's sole water provider
at significantly higher rates. Bond kills
the police chief for betraying Mathis, and after
killing the security detail, he confronts Greene.
Meanwhile, Camille kills Medrano, avenging the
murders of her family. The struggle leaves the
facility destroyed by fire. Bond captures
Greene and interrogates him about Quantum.
Bond leaves him stranded in the desert with only a
can of engine oil. Bond and Camille share a kiss,
and she wishes him luck in conquering his demons.
Bond travels to Kazan, Russia, where he finds
Vesper Lynd's former lover, Yusef Kabira,
a member of Quantum who seduces women
agents with valuable connections and is
indirectly responsible for her death.
After saving Kabira's latest target (Katic), Bond
allows MI6 to arrest Kabira, unharmed. Outside,
M tells Bond that Greene was found dead in
the middle of the desert, shot twice in the
neck and some engine oil found in his stomach. M
tells Bond she needs him back; he responds that
he never left. As he walks away, Bond drops
Vesper's necklace behind him in the snow.